Rare Emerald Sealion

Medium

# Signature can be replayed between markets

### Summary

PredictDotFun allows lenders and borrowers to create orders offchain, sign the order and then publish the proposal for others to fill.

The current proposal includes a salt and a nonce, which prevent replay of proposals on the same Loan market.

But the proposal does not include any information about loan contract address. 
This allows to replay the proposal and fill it on another chain, only requiring the lender to have approved tokens to the Loan market on that chain using the same address.

### Root Cause

The proposal ID does not include any property making it unique to the contract.
```solidity

 function hashProposal(Proposal calldata proposal) public view returns (bytes32 digest) {
        digest = _hashTypedDataV4(
            keccak256(
                abi.encode(
                    keccak256(
                        "Proposal(address from,uint256 loanAmount,uint256 collateralAmount,uint8 questionType,uint256 questionId,bool outcome,uint256 interestRatePerSecond,uint256 duration,uint256 validUntil,uint256 salt,uint256 nonce,uint8 proposalType,uint256 protocolFeeBasisPoints)"
                    ),
                    proposal.from,
                    proposal.loanAmount,
                    proposal.collateralAmount,
                    proposal.questionType,
                    proposal.questionId,
                    proposal.outcome,
                    proposal.interestRatePerSecond,
                    proposal.duration,
                    proposal.validUntil,
                    proposal.salt,
                    proposal.nonce,
                    proposal.proposalType,
                    proposal.protocolFeeBasisPoints
                )
            )
        );
    }

```
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L812-L835

### Internal pre-conditions

Lender needs to have funds approved to contracts on both or funds to same contracts.
This is likely in case he is a frequent user.  

### External pre-conditions

The prediction market that the loan contracts integrate with need to have the same questionID.
This is unlikely but not impossible. Especially while there are similar questions asked on all markets, it can happen that 2 use the same question.

### Attack Path

1. Create list of lenders that use protocol frequently and have approved funds on different to different contracts.
2. Wait till there are 2 same questionIDs. (in case the prediction market predictdotfun integrates with allows to create own questions, its easier to force questionID collision)
3. Fill the proposal on both contracts 


### Impact

The lender is exposed to more risk then he intents to.
In case the loan defaults, he will lose multiple times his indented loan amount.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Include the contract name and in the proposal hash.