Crazy Arctic Halibut

Medium

# Proposal Replay Attack May Lead to Unauthorized Execution of Proposals Across Multiple Chains

### Summary

The PredictDotLoan contract is intended for deployment on multiple blockchain networks. A potential vulnerability exists where a signed proposal on one chain could be reused on another chain if the nonce and other parameters are valid.

The lack of chain ID in the signature will cause unauthorized execution of proposals for the PredictDotLoan contract as attackers will reuse valid signatures across multiple chains.

### Root Cause

The choice to not include the chain ID in the proposal struct is a mistake as it allows signatures to be reused across different chains, leading to potential replay attacks. This could lead to unauthorized actions being executed on unintended chains.

```solidity
    struct Proposal {
        address from;
        uint256 loanAmount;
        uint256 collateralAmount;
        QuestionType questionType;
        bytes32 questionId;
        bool outcome;
        uint256 interestRatePerSecond;
        uint256 duration;
        uint256 validUntil;
        uint256 salt;
        uint256 nonce;
        ProposalType proposalType;
        bytes signature;
        uint256 protocolFeeBasisPoints;
    }
```
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/interfaces/IPredictDotLoan.sol#L45C1-L60C6

### Internal pre-conditions

1. The lender/borrower must have an active approval for the token/collateral on the targeted network.
2. The salt used in the proposal must not be canceled on the target network.
3. The proposal's validity must not be expired.
4. The nonce value on the targeted contract must match the nonce specified in the proposal.

### External pre-conditions

1. The Lender/Borrower should create proposals offline, which can either be fulfilled or remain unfulfilled.

### Attack Path

1. The attacker identifies a potential victim's proposal with a valid nonce, salt, validity, and approval on the targeted network.  
2. The attacker can use this proposal to fulfill their own request or offer.  
3. The attacker can also use this proposal to match with other proposals.

### Impact

The `PredictDotLoan` contract suffers from a significant loss of control over the integrity of proposal execution. An attacker can gain unauthorized ability to execute proposals across multiple chains.

As a result, users may be forced into loan agreements they did not intend to participate in, or with interest rates that negatively impact them, potentially leading to a loss of funds or collateral.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Incorporate the chain ID into the data being signed for proposals. This ensures that a signature is only valid for the chain it was intended for, effectively preventing replay attacks across different networks.

```diff
    struct Proposal {
        address from;
        uint256 loanAmount;
        uint256 collateralAmount;
        QuestionType questionType;
        bytes32 questionId;
        bool outcome;
        uint256 interestRatePerSecond;
        uint256 duration;
        uint256 validUntil;
        uint256 salt;
        uint256 nonce;
        ProposalType proposalType;
        bytes signature;
        uint256 protocolFeeBasisPoints;
+       uint256 chainId;
    }
```