Creamy Lace Seahorse

Medium

# Auction may charge more protocol fees than expected

### Summary

When new loans are created within the usual methods such as `_createLoan` or `_refinance`, the `proposal`'s fee must match the current protocol fee, to make sure the participants are aware of it and will not get charged extra unexpectedly.

```solidity
    function _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints(uint256 proposalProtocolFeeBasisPoints) private view {
        if (proposalProtocolFeeBasisPoints != protocolFeeBasisPoints) {
            revert ProtocolFeeBasisPointsMismatch();
        }
    }
```

However, when a lender gives a new loan using the `auction` function, such check is missing. Because of it, the lender may be charged unexpectedly, if they're unaware of the current fee of the protocol, or it if has been changed before the user's transaction has executed.

```solidity
        loan.status = LoanStatus.Auctioned;

        uint256 _nextLoanId = nextLoanId;
        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, callTime - loan.startTime);
        uint256 protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
```

### Root Cause

No check whether the current protocol fee is within expectation of the user.

### Affected Code
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L581C1-L585C72

### Attack Path

1. Lender calls a loan which is past its `minimumDuration`
2. Another lender wants to take that loan. They call `auction` expecting no protocol fee on it, as it is currently set to 0.
3. At that same time, before the lender's transaction executes, the admins change the protocol fee to 200bps 
4. The new lender is charged 2% more, without expecting it. 

### Impact
The lender is forced to take a loan at undesirable terms. Loss of funds for the lender as they have to pay up to 2% more. This could realistically result in an unprofitable loan if the total term's interest is less than 2% (which is quite likely)

### Mitigation
Add `maxAcceptedFee` argument that the users can pass to `auction` and check against it.