Creamy Lace Seahorse

Medium

# Users could bypass the set refinancing/ auction fees by using a third-party contract

### Summary

Whenever a loan is refinanced/ auctioned (and therefore a new one is opened), `protocolFee` is applied 

```solidity
        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, block.timestamp - loan.startTime);
        protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
        uint256 fulfillAmount = debt + protocolFee;
```

As the protocol fee can be a significant amount (up to 2%), users are incentivized to circumvent it. One possible way to do so would be by using a third-party router contract.

The idea is simple - users create loans using that router contract. Within the `PredictDotLoan` contract, the router is the lender of the loan. The router contract then implements its own logic to track actual ownership of the loan.

If a user wants to create an auction or refinance their loan, this can all happen from within the router contract (assuming intended new interest rate is same or smaller. ) Ownership within the router is transferred. Since nothing actually changed within the original `PredictDotLoan`, no fee is charged.

### Attack Path
Consider the following scenario:
1. Alice creates a loan using a router contract, to lend funds to another user.
2. The borrower's payment is late and Alice wants to auction the loan.
3. The auction happens within the router contract. A new lender Bob decides to take it and sends the necessary funds to Alice. Router virtually transfer ownership to Bob.
4. In the end, using a router contract, Bob has circumvented paying protocol fees.

### Affected Code
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1092C1-L1094C52

### Impact
Loss of funds, bypassing intended protocol fee.

### Mitigation

Fix is non-trivial