Stable Walnut Cheetah

Medium

# Protocol fee rounds down  in disfavour of the protocol

### Summary
Whenever there's a protocol fee (such as in the functions `matchProposals(), acceptBorrowRequest(), acceptLoanOffer(), or auction(),` the fee to the protocol will always round down in disfavor of the protocol, this causes small losses, which will accumulate over time.

## Affected parts in the code
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L234
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L585
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L894
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1093

### Root Cause

`predict.fun` is missing a Math lib (for example, the Solady Mathlib) to prevent rounding issues in Solidity.

### Internal pre-conditions

As long as the protocol fee ends on a decimal, the issue will arise.

### External pre-conditions

The functions containing a protocol fee such as  such as in the functions `matchProposals(), acceptBorrowRequest() , acceptLoanOffer(), or auction()` is callable by anyone.

### Attack Path

To exemplify one of the paths when calling `auction()`

1. The lender calls the loan, marking the status as CALLED.
2. Anyone calling the auction() to trigger an auction.
3. 
```solidity
uint256 protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
```
Due to the protocol needing to handle rounding down issues in Solidity, the protocol fee will inevitably round down, disfavouring the protocol.
### Impact
Since the fee will always be less than the actual sum of the calculation - the protocol ends up with small losses that accumulate over time in missing fees.


### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Use Solady's `FixedPointMathLib.sol` https://github.com/Vectorized/solady/blob/main/src/utils/FixedPointMathLib.sol 
