Rare Sky Mouse

High

# charging protocol fee on principal amount during refinancing will cause loss to borrowers

### Summary

Loans can be `refinanced` in the protocol by calling `refinance` function. The borrower can choose to automatically refinance their loan by setting the flag of `autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower]` to `true`. If `autoRefinancing` is enabled for the borrower, the `REFINANCIER_ROLE` can automatically refinance the loan of borrower when they see better loan offer. During `refinancing` the `borrower` is charged protocol fee again on the amount that he borrowed. The protocol fee was charged to the borrower when the loan was created. As protocol fee is charged again during refinancing, the `borrower` is paying it on principal again and again. 

```js
uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, block.timestamp - loan.startTime);
protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
uint256 fulfillAmount = debt + protocolFee;
```
 
 Let's look at the implementation of `_calculateDebt` function:
 
```js
function _calculateDebt(
        uint256 loanAmount, //// amount that is borrowed
        uint256 interestRatePerSecond,
        uint256 timeElapsed //// time of loan
    ) private pure returns (uint256 debt) {
        debt = (loanAmount * interestRatePerSecond.pow(timeElapsed)) / InterestLib.ONE;
    }
```
    
The above formula is compound interest formula similar to ` Principal * (1 + rate) ^ time`. The answer returned by this formula is `principal amount + debt` and not only the debt incurred. Thus, during `refinancing`, protocol fee is charged again on principal amount even when it was charged during creation of loan. So, if loan is refinanced again and again by the `REFINANCIER_ROLE` if `auto-refinancing` is `enabled`, borrower will be incurring huge loan amount.




### Root Cause

calculating protocol fee on debt - https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1092C9-L1094 

debt also considers principal amount - https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1182-L1188 



### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

This is a bug in the working of protocol. The attacker can try to incur huge protocol fee on borrower by placing `loanOffers` which is slightly favorable in terms of `interest rate` and `collateralization ratio` but will cause more loss to `borrower` in terms of `protocol fee`. 


### Impact

_No response_

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Only consider the protocol fee on debt during refinancing of loan. 
The mitigation code is as follows:
```js
        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, block.timestamp - loan.startTime);
        //// @issue-fix
        protocolFee = ((debt - loan.loanAmount) * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
        uint256 fulfillAmount = debt + protocolFee;
```