Glorious Tawny Jellyfish

High

# Users accrue interest on the protocol fee

### Summary

The Predict Fun protocol offers to its users the option to borrow some funds(USDB on blast, USDC on other chain) against a collateral in certain CTF tokens. When a loan is taken the protocol collects a fee. Borrowers are charged interest on the amount they borrow. However due to the way the protocol is implemented the fee that is collected by the protocol when a loan is made, is included in the amount that accrues interest. This will be detrimental for users that take out big loans. Consider the following example:
 1. Lets say Alice decides to accepts a loan offer from Bob via the [acceptLoanOffer()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L206-L209) function. The protocol charges a 2% fee which is equal to 200 BIPS. Bob has set the **interestRatePerSecond** to **3_020_262_040** which is supposed to be 10% according to the test files. The **loanAmount** is *100_000e18* the **collateralAmount** is *200_000e18*. The loan duration is for 1 year. 
 2. Now Alice is addicted to gambling and she is sure the bet she has taken is going to be a winning one, and would like to gamble more, so she decides to provide her **200_000e18** CTF tokens as collateral and take more USDB tokens, in order to buy more CTF tokens. So she calls the [acceptLoanOffer()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L206-L209) function with **100_000e18** as the value of the **fulfillAmount** parameter.  
 3. In the [_acceptOffer()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L976-L1009) function there are some checks done on the loan offer, and then the [_calculateCollateralAmountRequired()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1161-L1171) function is called, which calculates the collateral that Alice needs to provide, this will be **200_000e18**. Then the  [_acceptOffer()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L976-L1009) function calls the [_transferLoanAmountAndProtocolFee()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L889-L899) function:
```solidity
    function _transferLoanAmountAndProtocolFee(
        address from,
        address to,
        uint256 loanAmount
    ) private returns (uint256 protocolFee) {
        protocolFee = (loanAmount * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
        LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(from, to, loanAmount - protocolFee);
        if (protocolFee > 0) {
            LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(from, protocolFeeRecipient, protocolFee);
        }
    }
```
 As can be seen from the above code snippet first the protocol fee is calculated **(100_000e18 \* 200) / 10_000 = 2_000e18**, so Alice will receive only **98_000e18** the other **2_000e18** tokens will be sent to the fee receiver. However when we go back to he [_acceptOffer()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L976-L1009) function we can see that the whole amount is used in the loan creation 
```solidity
_createLoan(nextLoanId, proposal, positionId, lender, borrower, collateralAmountRequired, fulfillAmount);
```
As a result Alice will incur interest rate on the full **100_000e18**, not on the **98_000e18** tokens the she actually received. Lets say a year passes and she decides to repay her loan. She would have to repay **110_000e18** USDB in order to get back he collateral. Instead she should have repaid **(98_000e18 \* 10%) + 98_000e18 = 9_800e18 + 98_000e18 = 107.800e18**

Keep in mind this numbers are chosen to better illustrate the problem. All loans are affected by the above described discrepancy. Another way to charge the fee should be implemented a way where the lender can lend the full amount, and a way where the borrower is not overcharged. This is not mentioned as a design decision, and if it is a decision decision is a terrible one, given that there are no docs or comments that make clear that the protocol desires to overcharge its borrowers, this should be considered a valid high. Nobody charges an interest on a fee that is supposed to be paid only once. 
### Root Cause

When a loan is created the fee that the protocol charges on loan creation is included in the total borrowed amount of the loan. Later on when debt is calculated the borrower accrues debt on the fee as well. 

### Internal pre-conditions

1. The protocol is deployed and there is at least one borrower

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

Borrowers pay much more fees than they should, depending on the interest rate of the loan, the duration and the size of the loan borrowers may pay hundreds of dollars more than they should. This results in loss of fees for the borrowers in every loan, and this is the behavior of the protocol, there are no pre conditions or attacks, thus the high severity. 

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation
As described in the above example Alice will receive only **98_000e18** but will have to pay interest on the **100_000e18**, either give her the whole amount, and charge fee when she repays the loan, or figure out another way to collect fees, that doesn't overcharge borrowers. 