Rare Sky Mouse

High

# protocol is charging protocol fee on principal amount during auction

### Summary

Loans can be `auctioned` in the protocol after certain time is elapsed once loan is called by calling `auction` function. During `auction` the new lender is charged protocol fee again on the amount that he is lending. The protocol fee was charged to the borrower when the loan was created. As protocol fee is charged again during `auction` again, the borrower is paying it on principal again and again.

```js
uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, callTime - loan.startTime);
uint256 protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
```
Let's look at the implementation of `_calculateDebt` function:
```js
function _calculateDebt(
        uint256 loanAmount, //// amount that is borrowed
        uint256 interestRatePerSecond,
        uint256 timeElapsed //// time of loan
    ) private pure returns (uint256 debt) {
        debt = (loanAmount * interestRatePerSecond.pow(timeElapsed)) / InterestLib.ONE;
    }
```

The above formula is compound interest formula similar to  `Principal * (1 + rate) ^ time`. The answer returned by this formula is `principal amount + debt` and not only the `debt incurred`. Thus, during auction, protocol fee is charged again on `principal amount even when it was charged during creation of loan`. So, if loan is auctioned again and again by the lenders, borrower will be incurring huge loan amount.

It's not fair to charge protocol fee again on borrower when they have already paid for it during loan creation.

Also since the auctioned loans don't have minimum duration, lenders can try to incur huge debt on original borrower by calling loans again and again by creating multiple accounts.  




### Root Cause

considers protocol fee on debt during `auction` - https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L584-L592

debt also considers principal amount - https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1182-L1188



### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

The protocol will charge protocol fee again on principal amount even though he has paid the protocol fee when loan was created. Also, since auctioned loan doesn't have minimum duration, if loan is auctioned multiple times, borrower will incur huge protocol fee on his principal amount during each auction.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Only consider the protocol fee on debt during auction of loan.
The mitigation code is as follows:

```js
        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, block.timestamp - loan.startTime);
        //// @issue-fix
        protocolFee = ((debt - loan.loanAmount) * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
```