Careful Pistachio Bat

Medium

# Risk-Free Arbitrage Exploit in acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder via Collateral Leveraging

### Summary

The `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder` function allows users to fill orders using loan offers without providing upfront funds. If excess collateral is generated during this process, it is transferred to the user, allowing them to repeatedly exploit this by taking out additional loans without adding new collateral. This creates an arbitrage opportunity where users can continuously borrow USDB at no cost.

### Root Cause

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L265

```solidity
 _transferExcessCollateralIfAny(
                positionId,
                msg.sender,
                collateralAmountRequired,
                collateralTokenBalanceIncrease
            );
```

By design, when a user calls the `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder` function, any excess collateral is sent to the user without them providing any funds to the market or paying the protocol fee.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. Bob scans the markets and finds offers and orders that could yield him some collateral.  
2. He calls `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder` and receives CT tokens without providing any funds.  
3. He then uses the CT tokens to borrow USDB from the protocol.  
4. He can repeat this process whenever he spots an opportunity, with minimal risk, as he only pays for gas fees.

### Impact

This loophole allows malicious actors to unfairly gain free collateral and repeatedly borrow funds. Users can continually exploit this behavior, taking advantage of excess collateral for subsequent loans without any real contribution, which create opportunities for arbitrage at the expense of other participants.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Limit the amount of excess collateral that can be withdrawn immediately or lock it until the loan is repaid, preventing its immediate reuse.