Nutty Chartreuse Woodpecker

Medium

# Malicious user can steal LOAN_TOKENS.

### Summary

acceptLoanAndFillOrder function can be called by anyone any valid loan request can be used and a malicious can alter the exchangeOrder.feeRateBps and set themselves to exchangeOrder.maker this allows them to  drain all LOAN_TOKENS  from the predictDotLoan.sol contract.
The malicious user has the ability to front run stopping all transactions in the block making use of a function that has to transfer the LOAN_TOKENS.
I think a malicious user can also just front run any proposal with acceptLoanAndFillOrder in both the blastPredictDotLoan and the normal PredictDotLoan and stop anyone from using that proposal.

### Root Cause

Due to lack of validity checks of the exchangeOrder parameter.

### Internal pre-conditions

There must be a valid proposal and there must be LOAN_TOKENS.

### External pre-conditions

None.

### Attack Path

Malicious user calls acceptLoanAndFillOrder with an exchangeOrder.maker equal to themselves and exchangeOrder.feeRateBps at a very high value.

### Impact

If there is a sell value for the LOAN_TOKENS they can be sold by malicious user for profit.
If there is a cap on the maximum number of LOAN_TOKENS that can be minted and sent to the contract it could break functionality of the contract with any function that has to transfer LOAN_TOKENS.
If there are no more LOAN_TOKENS in the contract it can cause all transactions calling a function which deals with the transfer of LOAN_TOKENS to revert until more LOAN_TOKENS  are put into the contract.
It also stops the protocolFeeRecipient from getting fees.

### PoC

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L272-L289



### Mitigation

I think there are a few access control issues with this function in particular but I am unsure on how you want the functionality of the contract to be run. 