Bright Saffron Urchin

Medium

# An attacker can potentially consume all loan proposals at relatively low cost

### Summary

A malicious attacker can stack up repeated calls of `acceptLoanOffer()` , `repay()` in a same block thereby consuming loan proposals without giving any interest. Lenders will not get any compensation for providing liquidity and will have to sign proposals again. 

### Root Cause

The `repay()` function is responsible for repayment of the loan by borrower. It calculates the debt based on time elapsed since the start of loan can change the loan status from `Active/Called` to `Repaid`
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L454-L474

However, there's no requirement of minimum duration required for a loan before `repay()` is called. 
This implies that the act of borrowing and repaying can be performed in the same block. Since interest amount is time dependent, it will be zero.

A malicious attacker can take advantage of this by calling `acceptLoanOffer()` and `repay()` in the same block potentially consuming the all or majority of loan proposals. 

The cost of attack is also relatively low since attacker only needs to pay gas fee and protocol fee which is between 0% to 2%
On the contrary, consuming all or majority of the loan offers will hinder `refinance()` process by repeatedly consuming loans leading to more defaults.
Lenders receive no compensation for providing liquidity and are burdened with the inconvenience of having to sign new loan offers repeatedly.


### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

   1. The malicious borrower calls `acceptLoanOffer()` for a loan offer.
   2. Immediately within the same block, the borrower calls `repay()` before any significant time passes, allowing the borrower to return the principal without interest.
   3. This process is repeated multiple times, consuming all available loan offers in just a few transactions.

### Impact

1. All or majority of loan offers being consumed in just few transactions.
2. Hindered refinance functionality leading to more defaults.
3. Bad user experience for lenders, leading to trust erosion. 

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Introduce a minimum loan duration for `repay()` function. 