Savory White Panda

High

# CTF tokens can be drained from the Contract

### Summary

When `Borrower` calls ` acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` he is allowed to call it without collateral. that is borrow without upfront tokens that can act as the underlying token. The issue arises when creating the loan, the calculation of collateralRequired is filled in as if the borrower provided it .

### Root Cause

In `PredictLoan.sol::acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` there is the function that calculates the collateralAmount that is required for the lender to the borrower. 
```python
uint256 collateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(proposal, fulfillment, fulfillAmount);
```
this is good to ensure the collateral that the `lender` has meets the demands.
- However, when creating the loan the code fills the CollaterAmountRequired, as if the borrower had the collateral.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L297
```python
_createLoan(
            nextLoanId,
            proposal,
            positionId,
            proposal.from,
            msg.sender,
 @>     collateralAmountRequired,
            fulfillAmount
        );
 // this is then updated in storage in the function 
       ...
        loans[id].collateralAmount = collateralAmount;
        ...
```

- So when the borrower later calls `Repay()` on the loanId
A transfer will be carried out
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L471
```python
//@audit exploiter can receive free tokens.
CTF.safeTransferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, loan.positionId, loan.collateralAmount, "");
```
and if the contract can cover the transaction the `msg.sender` will receive tokens.

### Internal pre-conditions

If the `Borrower` calls `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()`, make sure to update collaterAmount with hardcoded `ZERO`. since this type of loan the `borrower`, doesn't have to provide any `collateral`.

### External pre-conditions

N/a

### Attack Path

<h4>BeforeAttack</h4>

 There tokens locked in under Different `PositionIDs` by borrowers as collateral for there loans.

1. An Attacker creates a proposal under the same `Positions` with `collateral` locked by other `borrowers`.
2. Using a different Address he acts as the `Borrower` creates an order and calls `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` with the proposal.
2. The contract incorrectly fills in `collateralAmountRequired` as the collateral provided in the `_createLoan()` function.
3. The `Borrower` then immediately calls `Repay()`, where the contract sends him, free `Ctf` tokens and his original `CollateralTokens` are sent to the lender `address` that he used to create proposal
4. He can then rinse and repeat, drain all `positionIds`

### Impact

The locked tokens `Borrowers`, locked when they use ` acceptLoanOffer()` can be stolen. Using the Attack sequence above.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

While The `borrower` creates a loan using `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` make sure to update state with `0` as the collateral he gave upfront.

```diff
 _createLoan(
            nextLoanId,
            proposal,
            positionId,
            proposal.from,
            msg.sender,
-            collateralAmountRequired,
            fulfillAmount
        );
        
 _createLoan(
            nextLoanId,
            proposal,
            positionId,
            proposal.from,
            msg.sender,
+          0,
            fulfillAmount
        );
```