Stable Midnight Canary

Medium

# Time sensitive acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder() function can be DoS-ed

### Summary

The `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` function allows borrowers to take a loan, fill an existing exchange order, and provide collateral using the conditional tokens received. It always attempts to fulfill the entire order (`fulfillAmount = order.makerAmount`), assuming the order was not partially filled. This makes it vulnerable to griefing attacks: a malicious user can partially fill the order with a very small amount, rendering the order unusable for others, as subsequent attempts to fill it fully will fail due to the partial fulfillment. As both proposal and order have an expiration time, this can be considered as time sensitive function.
### Root Cause

Root cause lies in `_fillOrder()` implementation. It always try to fill the order with the specified `exchangeOrder.makerAmount`

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L935

### Internal pre-conditions

N/A

### External pre-conditions

Attacker frontrun `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` transaction of user with small amount order fill.

### Attack Path

1. User submit a transaction trying to execute `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()`.
2. Attacker front run the transaction and fill the order specified from the user with small amount fulfill.

This can be done perpetually for every new order which users try to fulfill. Already partially fulfilled orders wont be usable in the context of `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()`. Attacker have to pay the gas cost of his transaction and the small amount which he fulfill. For L2 chains where frontrun is possible, the price of this attack is negligible. For Ethereum mainnet, the price depends on the gas costs.
### Impact

One of the core protocol functionalities will be usable in rare cases when attacker fails to frontrun the user transaction for a new order. This does not result in any funds lost, but as the function is time sensitive, it can disrupt the the overall functionality.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

CTF exchange have a state variable `orderStatus` which account for the remaining amount of an order.
```solidity
struct OrderStatus {
    bool isFilledOrCancelled;
    uint256 remaining;
}
```

To mitigate the issue the design of `acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder()` can be changed to:
* user provide what is the minimum amount of borrowed funds he will take
* protocol checks the remaining amount from `orderStatus`
* if remaining > user's specified minimum, fill the order

`orderStatus`:
https://github.com/Polymarket/ctf-exchange/blob/2745c3017400dbc1925711005fe76b018b999155/src/exchange/mixins/Trading.sol#L19
