Striped Bronze Ferret

High

# Malicious borrower can DoS `refinance` function called by `REFINANCIER_ROLE`

### Summary

- When `REFINANCIER_ROLE` called `refinance` function to refinance multiple loans, a malicious borrower can DoS this functionality.  `REFINANCIER_ROLE` can refinance loans of that borrower who selected the option of using this bot. It is not by default.

- So to select this option borrower on his toggle by calling `toggleAutoRefinancingEnabled` function. Now when borrower's loan is refinance by `REFINANCIER_ROLE` with other multiple loans, the malicious borrower can front-run the transaction by seeing it in the mempool.

- Before this transaction execute, malicious borrower call `toggleAutoRefinancingEnabled` function to off his toggle. So in for loop when his loan comes it will check the toggle is on or off and because he front-run the whole transaction reverts and gas for previous loans lost.

```solidity
function refinance(
        Refinancing[] calldata refinancings
    ) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused onlyRole(REFINANCIER_ROLE) {
        RefinancingResult[] memory results = new RefinancingResult[](refinancings.length);
        for (uint256 i; i < refinancings.length; ++i) {
            Refinancing calldata refinancing = refinancings[i];
            (uint256 id, Loan memory loan, uint256 protocolFee) = _refinance(refinancing);

            address borrower = loan.borrower;
@>          if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) {
                revert BorrowerDidNotEnableAutoRefinancing(borrower);
            }
           ...
    }
   ```
- Again when `REFINANCIER_ROLE` bot call this function with multiple loans to refinance the malicious borrower again repeat the  same thing and legit loans cannot be refinance as per intended.

- From the attackers perspective,  it is very easy and nominal fund require to attack like this. Attacker will create a few wei loan and from other address accept this loan offer. Now with third address he will create other loan in which provide with lower interest rate so that it will be gone in refinance by `REFINANCIER_ROLE`. And attacker can DoS refinance and loss of gas to protocol and legit loans will not be refinance as per intended.

- This kind of front-run can be happen for many reasons like to prevent other loan's refinance and getting selected own loan proposal as a new loan and many other reasons.
   



### Root Cause

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L499C7-L529C6

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. `REFINANCIER_ROLE` call the function `refinance` to refinance multiple loans in which loan of malicious borrower exist.
2. malicious borrower sees the transaction in the mempool.
3. malicious borrower front-run the transaction by off his toggle by calling `toggleAutoRefinancingEnabled` function.
4. Now, when original transaction execute, it will revert because of malicious borrower off his toggle.
5. It can be repeated multiple times.


### Impact

- The `refinance` function will be DoS so legit loans will not be refinance as intended by `REFINANCIER_ROLE` and also loss of gas for protocol.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

- Protocol should make sure that this kind of malicious borrowers cannot be DoS the refinance function.