Cool Ash Ostrich

High

# Malicious user can front-run refinancing to cause DOS

### Summary

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L502-L530
A vulnerability exists in the refinancing function where a malicious user can front-run the transaction by toggling off the autoRefinancingEnabled flag for borrowers. This causes a denial of service (DoS) by preventing the refinancing process from completing, thereby hindering legitimate users from refinancing their loans.

### Root Cause

toggleAutoRefinancingEnabled() can be called during auto-refinancing process.

### Internal pre-conditions

- Similar logic on-chain logic applies to off-chain simulation, leading to a case whereby the auto-refinance can't be vetoed for all users involved on-chain and because loan proposals have a max duration, refinanced loans might eventually fail to go through when finally passed on-chain; if the loan proposer withdraws their loan or the expected duration has passed.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

-The malicious user after toggling the auto-refinance on detects the pending transaction and quickly toggles off the autoRefinancingEnabled flag for the borrower.
-When the refinance function executes, the check if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) fails.
-The transaction reverts with the error BorrowerDidNotEnableAutoRefinancing, preventing the refinancing process from completing for all the users involved.
-protocol removes the malicious user from auto-refinance but before the transaction is eventually processed on chain the expected time for loan re-payment has passed and loan is called and seized by lender. Or the proposal matched to refinance loan has expired or withdrawn by the proposer

### Impact

The refinancing process is disrupted, preventing legitimate users from refinancing their loans and  a subsequent loss of funds

### PoC

below is the refinance function which process auto-refinance in batches.
the function checks if the autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) which can be manipulated by a malicious borrower


```solidity
function refinance(
        Refinancing[] calldata refinancings
    ) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused onlyRole(REFINANCIER_ROLE) {
        RefinancingResult[] memory results = new RefinancingResult[](refinancings.length);//
        for (uint256 i; i < refinancings.length; ++i) {
            Refinancing calldata refinancing = refinancings[i];//
            (uint256 id, Loan memory loan, uint256 protocolFee) = _refinance(refinancing);

            // Doing this check after the refinancing, but in realitiy
            // it does not matter because the transaction simulation would've
            // failed before it is submitted on-chain.
            address borrower = loan.borrower;
            if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) {
                revert BorrowerDidNotEnableAutoRefinancing(borrower);
            }

            results[i] = RefinancingResult(
                hashProposal(refinancing.proposal),
                refinancing.loanId,
                id,
                loan.lender,
                loan.collateralAmount,
                loan.loanAmount,
                loan.interestRatePerSecond,
                loan.minimumDuration,
                protocolFee
            );
        }
        emit LoansRefinanced(results);
    }
```
here the malicious borrower toggles off auto-refinancing leading to revert of the whole transactions
```solidity
 function toggleAutoRefinancingEnabled() external {
        uint256 preference = autoRefinancingEnabled[msg.sender] == 0 ? 1 : 0;//
        autoRefinancingEnabled[msg.sender] = preference;
        emit AutoRefinancingEnabledToggled(msg.sender, preference);
    }

```

### Mitigation

Ensure that the autoRefinancingEnabled flag cannot be toggled during the execution of the refinancing transaction.