Rare Emerald Sealion

Medium

# Lender can deny a repayment by getting themselves on the USDC blacklist

### Summary

Any repayment of a loan (by repayment, refinancing, or auctioning) will transfer USDC directly to the lender. In case the lender is blacklisted, there is no way to repay a loan.

The lender can use this to their advantage to block a borrower from repaying, thus stealing their collateral.

### Root Cause

Any attempts to repay a loan will transfer the borrowed amounts directly to the lender. This is the only way the borrower can earn back their collateral:

```solidity
function repay(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
    // ...
    LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, debt); // @audit transfer to lender
    CTF.safeTransferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, loan.positionId, loan.collateralAmount, "");
    // ...
}
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L470

If the lender is blacklisted, then repaying is impossible. By getting themselves blacklisted, a lender can deny repayment by a borrower, allowing them to inevitably seize the collateral afterwards.

### Internal pre-conditions

None

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Alice makes a regular loan offer.
2. Bob accepts Alice's offer, deposits the collateral, and borrows Alice's USDC.
3. Alice speculates that the collateral token will become the correct answer.
4. Alice purposely gets blacklisted by USDC.
    - Any attempt to repay the loan (by normal repayment, or by auction) will revert, as they all attempt to transfer USDC to Alice.
    - Getting blacklisted can be as easy as [interacting with Tornado Cash](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2022-11-opyn-judging/issues/147), or having activities with OFAC sanctioned entities.
5. Alice waits it out for the loan to end, and seizes the collateral.

After the attack, despite being blacklisted, Alice can convert the collateral into a stablecoin by transferring the collateral to another address, redeem it for USDC, then swap USDC into another asset on an external market, all in one transaction.


### Impact

Loans cannot be repaid, borrowers will lose their collateral regardless of having the ability to repay or not.



### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Repayment and claiming the repayment should be possible with two separate steps (e.g. using a separate vault to hold repayments in case the transfer fails)