Atomic Ceramic Flamingo

High

# Lender can block repayment to seize collateral

### Summary

The lack of protection against USDC blacklisting in the `repay()` function will cause a potential loss of collateral for borrowers as a malicious lender can get blacklisted by USDC to prevent repayment and seize borrower's CTF tokens.

### Root Cause

In `PredictDotLoan.sol`:

[PredictDotLoan.sol#L451-L474](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L451-L474)
```solidity
    function repay(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
        Loan storage loan = loans[loanId];

        _assertAuthorizedCaller(loan.borrower);

        LoanStatus status = loan.status;
        if (status != LoanStatus.Active) {
            if (status != LoanStatus.Called) {
                revert InvalidLoanStatus();
            }
        }

        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, _calculateLoanTimeElapsed(loan));

        loan.status = LoanStatus.Repaid;

->      LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, debt);
        CTF.safeTransferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, loan.positionId, loan.collateralAmount, "");

        emit LoanRepaid(loanId, debt);
    }
```

The `repay()` function uses `safeTransferFrom()` to transfer the debt from the borrower to the lender without considering potential USDC blacklisting of the lender's address.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. A loan must be active with CTF tokens as collateral and USDC as the loan token.
   1. USDC is in scope as stated in the [README](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/README.md?plain=1#L23)
      1. > The collateral token should match the integrated prediction market’s collateral token. On Blast it will be USDB and USDC on other prediction markets.
2. The collateral-to-loan ratio must be favorable for the lender (> 100%).

### External pre-conditions

1. The lender must have been blacklisted on the USDC contract.

### Attack Path

1. The lender offers a loan with the following terms:
   - Loan amount: 1000 USDC
   - Collateral required: 3000 USDC worth of CTF tokens (300% collateral ratio)
   - Interest rate: 1000000000000000001 APY (it's the minimum allowed which is 0.0000000317% per year)
   - Duration: 7 days
2. The borrower accepts the loan, depositing 3000 USDC worth of CTF tokens as collateral.
3. The lender gets their address blacklisted by USDC.
4. The borrower attempts to repay the loan, but the transaction reverts due to the lender's blacklisting.
5. After the 7-day duration passes, the lender immediately calls the `call()` function.
6. If the question price is available, the `_seize()` function is automatically called, transferring the 3000 USDC worth of CTF collateral to the lender.
7. If the question price is unavailable, the loan will go through a 1 day auction but no other lender will be able to buy the loan because of the same bug being present in `auction()`: [PredictDotLoan.sol#L912](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L912)
8. The lender now possesses 3000 USDC worth of CTF tokens, tripling their initial 1000 USDC investment, while the borrower loses their entire collateral despite being willing and able to repay.

### Impact

The borrower suffers a complete loss of their CTF token collateral. The lender steals the borrower's collateral.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

_No response_