Fast Fern Mammoth

High

# If Lender gets blacklisted for USDC it will DoS borrower from repaying, which will lock up the collateral CTF tokens.

## Summary
USDC has blacklist functionality. If the lender gets blacklisted, the borrower cannot repay the debt and get his collateral back.

## Vulnerability Detail

**Flow:**
- Borrower accepts loan offer and Lender transfers him the `LOAN_TOKEN`. `CTF_TOKEN` ( the collateral ) gets deposited into the `PredictDotLoan.sol` contract. Borrower believes his collateral is valuable, but needs more liquidity/capital.
- Lender gets blacklisted for USDC.
- Borrower wants to repay and get his valuable collateral back, however he can't because we use the "push-model" which is trying to transfer back the `LOAN_TOKEN` to the Lender in the same call.  The transaction fails. - [snippet](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L470)
```solidity
    function repay(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
        Loan storage loan = loans[loanId];
        _assertAuthorizedCaller(loan.borrower);
        LoanStatus status = loan.status;
        if (status != LoanStatus.Active) {
            if (status != LoanStatus.Called) {
                revert InvalidLoanStatus();
            }
        }
        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, _calculateLoanTimeElapsed(loan));
        loan.status = LoanStatus.Repaid;

@>>        LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, debt);

        CTF.safeTransferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, loan.positionId, loan.collateralAmount, "");
        emit LoanRepaid(loanId, debt);
    }
```    
- Borrower cannot regain his collateral and its locked in the `PredictDotLoan.sol` contract.

## Impact
Valuable collateral of the borrower is stuck in the `PredictDotLoan.sol` contract.

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Instead of using the push-model ( to directly push the funds that need to be withdrawn to the lender ), use the pull design pattern. This way the lender can withdraw the `LOAN_TOKEN` himself, without locking valuable ConditionalToken collateral which the borrower can't get back because of failing transfer due to blacklist.
If the lender gets blacklisted and can't withdraw `LOAN_TOKEN` its his fault.
