Energetic Tangelo Starfish

Medium

# Malicios user can block borrowers repay using blocklist in USDC

### Summary

According to the Contest Readme, the protocol is allowed to be used in other networks. In these networks, USDC, which has a blacklist function, will serve as the Loan token.

The repay function transfers LOAN_TOKEN from the borrower to the lender.

Thus, a malicious actor (lender) can manipulate the call of the repay function from the borrower, preventing them from repaying the debt in this transaction, which leads to an [increase in their debt](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L772C5-L773C20). 
```solidity
function repay(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
        Loan storage loan = loans[loanId];

        _assertAuthorizedCaller(loan.borrower);

        LoanStatus status = loan.status;
        if (status != LoanStatus.Active) {
            if (status != LoanStatus.Called) {
                revert InvalidLoanStatus();
            }
        }

        uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, _calculateLoanTimeElapsed(loan));

        loan.status = LoanStatus.Repaid;

        LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, debt);
        CTF.safeTransferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, loan.positionId, loan.collateralAmount, "");

        emit LoanRepaid(loanId, debt);
    }
 ```

### Root Cause

The Root Cause lies in the fact that the repay function transfers funds directly to the lender's address, which could potentially be malicious. In combination with USDC's blacklist functionality, this creates opportunities for this attack.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

The protocol must be deployed on a network other than Blast and use USDC as the LOAN token.

### Attack Path

The attacker issues a loan, after adding his address to the USDC blocklist, the user is unable to repay his loan until the attacker is able to invoke a call on the loan. After that, the interest that the user will pay for his loan will be maximised.

### Impact

In networks other than Blast, lenders can intentionally prevent borrowers from repaying loans, either forcing them into default or increasing interest rates.

An example of such an error, rated as high severity.

[1](https://solodit.xyz/issues/h-4-lender-force-loan-become-default-sherlock-cooler-cooler-git_)

However, since the main network for this protocol is Blast, and USDC will be used as the LOAN token in other networks, presumably, the severity is: medium.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Use Solidity Withdrawal pattern