Bright Saffron Urchin

Medium

# Borrowers loan can get stuck if lender becomes usdc blacklisted after giving loan.

### Summary

If a lender that is about to be blacklisted gives a loan to an innocent borrower then borrower can't use `repay()` , `refinance()` or ever `auction()`.

### Root Cause

Consider these 3 functions.
1. [repay()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L470)

2. [refinance()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1117)

3. [ auction() ](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L598)

All of these function have one thing in common. They transfer loan token ( USDC ) to the lender. 

Consider a scenario where a lender's address that is about to be blacklisted gives a loan to an innocent borrower. 
Since lender got blacklisted, a lender cannot repay their loan , nor they can consider refinance or even auction is lender decides to call the loan. All of this is because transfer of usdc cannot happen on a blacklisted address. 

Borrowers tokens are stuck he cannot get back no matter what. 

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

Lender's address about to be blacklisted

### Attack Path

1. Bob ( lender ) knows his address is about to blacklisted.
2. He quickly uses `matchProposal` or `acceptBorrowRequest` for an innocent borrower, Alice. 
3. Bob's address becomes blacklisted.
4. Alice can't `repay` , `refinance` or `auction` her loan since safeTransferFrom on Bob's address will not work.  

### Impact

Borrower's CTF tokens are stuck in the contract that he cannot get back or roll over. 

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Not sure about mitigation but we can proactively check in all the 3 functions is lender has become blacklisted and then create extra logic to handle loan after that. 