Zealous Peanut Wolf

Medium

# Breaking of `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant during `auction()`

### Summary

Breaking of `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant during `auction()`

### Root Cause

- There is no check to prevent the `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant.
- In other functions like refinance ,acceptLoan the invariant is checked but not in `auction()`
- https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L561

### Internal pre-conditions

- Borrower should not have payed debt during loan Duration so that lender can `call()` for auctioning loan purpose.
- Then newLender calls `auction()` and then `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant breaks as they allowing loanAmount > collateralAmount

### External pre-conditions

- Given example in root cause

### Attack Path

- Under certain circumstances while calling `auction()` it breaks the `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant
- Let's understand vulnerability through scenario.
- Suppose Borrower has accepted a loan from lender in which `collateralAmount = 1000 ether` and `loanAmount = 1000 ether` and time duration of loan = 6 months and 10% APY.
- Now Borrower doesn't pay loan amount till duration of loan.
- Then Lender `call()` the loan as user didn't pay interest.
- Now new lender comes and call `auction()` to take the loan.
- New lender transfers the debt + protocol fee to old lender.
- Now new loan gets created with `old collateral amount` and `new loan amount`
```solidity
    newLoan.collateralAmount = loan.collateralAmount;
    newLoan.loanAmount = debt + protocolFee;
```
- So the new loan's collateral amount will be `1000 ether`and new loan amount would be `oldAmount + fee + interest accrued`, we can suppose new loan amount would `1100 ether`.
- So now in the new loan `loanAmount > collateralAmount` which breaks the `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant.
 ```solidity
     function _assertCollateralizationRatioAtLeastOneHundredPercent(
        uint256 collateralAmount,
        uint256 loanAmount
    ) private pure {
        if (collateralAmount < loanAmount) {
            revert CollateralizationRatioTooLow();
        }
    }
  ```  

### Impact

- Breaking of `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` main invariant which leads new lender getting under-collaterized loan.


### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

- The `Collateralization Ratio At LeastOneHundredPercent` invariant should be checked while `auction()`