Winning Pistachio Hippo

High

# `auction` function does not check if collateral amount > debt + protocol fee

### Summary

The `auction` function does not verify that the collateralization ratio is at least 100%, after calculating the new loan amount. This oversight can cause an undercollateralization vulnerability.

### Root Cause

The `PredictDotLoan::auction` function transfers a loan to a new lender, the is calculated and the protocol takes a fee from this amount, resulting with a loan amount higher than the original one.
```javascript
uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, callTime - loan.startTime);
uint256 protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
```
and the new amount is now debt + protocolFee
```javascript
newLoan.loanAmount = debt + protocolFee;
```

The issue is that the function does not recalculate or verify the collateral amount with this new loan amount. This oversight allows for the creation of new loans without ensuring the collateral-to-loan ratio is maintained, potentially resulting in undercollateralized positions.

Note that the collateral amount is checked in `_refinance` function but not in `auction` function.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

1. The new lender may be exposed to a higher risk if the collateral does not sufficiently cover the new loan amount.
2. The collateralization ratio of at least 100% is not met.
3. The new loaner from the auction could potentially not be eligible to refinance feature, since it checks that the new collateralAmountRequired is greater than the loaner's collateralAmount
```javascript
_refinance(.........
//.......
 if (collateralAmountRequired > loan.collateralAmount) {
            revert InsufficientCollateral();
        }
//.....
```
And since `loan.collateralAmount` is too low. this condition will always revert.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Add a check
```diff
+ _assertCollateralizationRatioAtLeastOneHundredPercent(loan.collateralAmount, debt + protocolFee);
```