Fast Holographic Salmon

Medium

# Mishandling of `protocolFeeBasisPoints` State Variable Leading to Zero `protocolFee` and Incorrect `fulfillAmount` Calculation

**Summary:**  
The `protocolFeeBasisPoints` state variable in the `PredictDotLoan.sol` contract is crucial for calculating both the `protocolFee` and `fulfillAmount`. However, its value is not initialized in the constructor, which causes it to default to `0`. This leads to incorrect calculations of the `protocolFee` and `fulfillAmount`, potentially resulting in financial losses for the protocol and lenders.

**Root Cause:**  
In `PredictDotLoan.sol` (Line 135), the `protocolFeeBasisPoints` variable is declared without an initial value. Since it's not set by the constructor or other functions before usage, it defaults to `0`. This variable is critical for determining the `protocolFee` and `fulfillAmount`.

The `PredictDotLoan::updateProtocolFeeBasisPoints` function (Line 722) allows the contract owner to set the value of `protocolFeeBasisPoints`, with a check ensuring the value doesn't exceed a maximum limit. However, there is no lower limit check, allowing the value to be `0` unintentionally.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L722-L728

If loan offers are created before the `PredictDotLoan::updateProtocolFeeBasisPoints` function is called and the value is properly set, the protocol fee will remain zero. This allows borrowers to accept loan offers without any additional fee, causing the protocol to miss out on earnings.

**Attack Path:**  
1. Alice notices that `protocolFeeBasisPoints` is not updated (set to `0`).
2. Alice views a loan offer and calls `PredictDotLoan::acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder`.
3. Alice’s proposal is hashed with a valid `exchangeOrder` and `proposal`.
4. The protocol fee is calculated as `uint256 protocolFee = (exchangeOrder.takerAmount * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;`, which results in `0`.
5. The fulfillAmount is then calculated as `uint256 fulfillAmount = exchangeOrder.takerAmount + protocolFee;`, resulting in `fulfillAmount = exchangeOrder.takerAmount + 0`.

**Impact:**  
The mishandling of the `protocolFeeBasisPoints` variable leads to financial losses for the protocol and lenders, as borrowers only have to repay the loan amount without any added fees. If a borrower defaults and the loan enters auction, the value of the new loan, calculated as `newLoan.loanAmount = debt + protocolFee;` (Line 592), will only represent the debt, or the auction might not occur at all if new lenders are uninterested due to this error.

**Proof of Concept (PoC):**  
To reproduce the issue, run the following code in `PredictDotLoan.acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder.t.sol` and execute the command `forge test --mt test_acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrderZeroprotocolFeeBasisPoints -vvvv` to observe the results.

<details>

```solidity
function test_acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrderZeroprotocolFeeBasisPoints() public {
    uint8 protocolFeeBasisPoints = 0; // Initial value of the state variable

    // _updateProtocolFeeRecipientAndBasisPoints(protocolFeeBasisPoints); commented because this function is yet to be called

    vm.prank(owner);
    predictDotLoan.updateMinimumOrderFeeRate(0);

    Order memory order = _createMockCTFSellOrder();
    order.feeRateBps = 40;

    IPredictDotLoan.Proposal memory proposal = _generateLoanOffer(IPredictDotLoan.QuestionType.Binary);
    uint256 protocolFee = (order.takerAmount * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
    proposal.loanAmount = order.takerAmount + protocolFee;
    proposal.signature = _signProposal(proposal);

    _assertBalanceAndFulfillmentBeforeExecution(borrower, lender, proposal);

    _assertOrderFilledUsingProposal(
        predictDotLoan.hashProposal(proposal),
        borrower,
        lender,
        proposal.loanAmount,
        _getPositionId(true),
        protocolFee
    );

    vm.prank(borrower);
    predictDotLoan.acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder(order, proposal);

    assertEq(mockERC20.balanceOf(address(predictDotLoan)), 0);
    assertEq(mockERC20.balanceOf(protocolFeeRecipient), (order.takerAmount * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000);
    assertEq(mockCTF.balanceOf(address(predictDotLoan), _getPositionId(true)), proposal.collateralAmount);
    assertEq(proposal.loanAmount, order.takerAmount);
    _assertLoanOfferFulfillmentData(proposal);

    _assertLoanCreated_OrderFilled(proposal.loanAmount);
}
```

</details>

**Mitigation:**  
To prevent this issue, the `protocolFeeBasisPoints` variable should be initialized in the constructor to ensure it has a valid value from the start. This will avoid incorrect fee calculations and ensure the protocol functions as intended from deployment.