Rough Mint Shetland

Medium

# `auction`, `call` and `seize` should have the same pausability status.

### Summary

`auction` can be paused while `call` and `seize` cannot which breaks the expected call - auction - seize flow of an called loan when question price is not available. 

### Root Cause

We can see from the functions below that when the contract is paused, loans can still be called and seized but auctions can not be conducted during this period.

```solidity
    function call(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
// ...
```

```solidity
    function auction(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused {
// ...
    }
```

```solidity
    function seize(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
// ...
        _seize(loanId, loan);
    }
```


### Internal pre-conditions

1. We're working with the assumption that `_isQuestionPriceAvailable` is always false, which is a state that can occur so seizing won't occur automatically.
2. The contract must be paused.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

Question price not being available means that the loan has to go through the "call - auction - seize" process ideally. This ensures that a loan can be handled fairly giving users a chance to bid on a called loan. But `auction` being pausable, while `call` and `seize` are not means this process will be outright broken. 

Auctions have a [fixed duration](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/41e70f9eed3f00dd29aba4038544150f5b35dccb/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L47), this means that while the protocol is paused, the duration still keeps counting as blocktime doesn't stop. 

During that period, loans can still be called and seized. If the contracts go paused for long enough, at least the `AUCTION_DURATION`, the loans can be seized without other users receiving a fair chance to bid on the loans. This gives an unfair advantage to lenders who do not want anyone else to own the loan since they're not able to bid on their own called loans.

On the other end of the spectrum, if for some reason, the lender doesn't want to seize the loan (for instance, if the intrinsic worth of the `LOAN_TOKEN` is much higher than the CTFs),  he wouldn't have a fair chance to actually auction it off before he'll have to seize it since the only option left after auction is past is to seizure. 

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Recommend setting the same pausability status for all three functions. Otherwise, since auction duration reduces while the protocol is paused, the `auction` function should not be pausable.