Low Carob Crocodile

Medium

# Admin invalidates all proposals in the system by changing unrelated protocol parameters

### Summary

An overly strict condition that checks `proposal.protocolFeeBasisPoints` will cause the admin, by changing the parameter in any direction, to invalidate all loan offers and loan requests, rendering the system unusable.

### Root Cause

The condition comparing the current `protocolFeeBasisPoints` with the one present at the time of proposal creation and signing is too precise.

```solidity
File: predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol
 1249:     function _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints(uint256 proposalProtocolFeeBasisPoints) private view {
 1250:         if (proposalProtocolFeeBasisPoints != protocolFeeBasisPoints) {
 1251:             revert ProtocolFeeBasisPointsMismatch();
 1252:         }
 1253:     }
```
[PredictDotLoan.sol:1249](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1249-L1249)

### Internal pre-conditions

1. 1000 lenders submit 1000 different loan offers with `protocolFeeBasisPoints=200`.
2. 1000 borrowers submit loan requests with `protocolFeeBasisPoints=200`.


### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

The admin (protocol team) wants to adjust system parameters to match market conditions (reduce the fee to `protocolFeeBasisPoints=100` to become more competitive).


### Impact

After lowering the protocol fee, all active offers will be invalidated, requiring 1000 lenders and borrowers to resubmit their proposals. This renders the core functionality of the system unusable, as there will be no valid proposals available, and users will have to re-enter their proposals.

Such an action will cause the majority of the proposals to not return to the system, leading to a loss of both lenders and borrowers.

Borrowers, who pay the protocol fee, are less impacted since the fee directly affects them and they only lose out in the case of a fee reduction (they would rather agree to more favorable conditions).

Lenders, who are not directly tied to the protocol fee (since they don't pay it), should have their offers remain in the system after such a change.

All main entrances to the system are affected by this issue:

- [acceptBorrowRequest](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L195-L195) -> _acceptOffer -> _assertProposalValidity -> _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints
- [acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L206-L206) -> _acceptOffer -> _assertProposalValidity -> _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints
- [acceptLoanOfferAndFillOrder](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L214-L214) -> _assertProposalValidity -> _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints
- [matchProposals](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L320-L320) -> _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints
- [refinance](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L479-L479) -> _refinance -> _assertMatchingProtocolFeeBasisPoints

### PoC

1. There are 1 000 000 active requests in the system (loan offers, borrower requests).
2. The admin changes the protocol fee.
3. Any attempt to interact with any request results in the error `revert ProtocolFeeBasisPointsMismatch();`.

### Mitigation

Depending on the business assumptions of the project, this can be solved in several ways.

First and foremost, validation should be disabled for loan offer proposals, since lenders do not pay a fee.

For borrowers, in case of a fee reduction, a lower fee can be applied or the fee that they agreed to at the time of proposal creation can be maintained. In the opposite case, everything remains unchanged.