Deep Azure Falcon

Medium

# Borrower will pay larger amount of collaterals for the last fully matched loan than it should be.

### Summary

When borrower's proposal is partialy matched with lender's proposal, collaterals are calculated by the lender's collateral ratio and deducted. After that, when the proposal is fully accepted by another lender, the borrower should lock larger collaterals for small amount of loan than it should be.

### Root Cause

When borrower's proposal `borrowRequest` is partialy matched with lender's proposal by [matchProposals()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L395-L406), collaterals are calculated by the collateral ratio of `loanOffer` and deducted:
```solidity
    function matchProposals(
        Proposal calldata borrowRequest,
        Proposal calldata loanOffer
    ) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused {
        --- SKIP ---
            collateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
                loanOffer,
                loanOfferFulfillment,
                fulfillAmount
            );

            _updateFulfillment( // @audit-info collateralAmountRequired might be smaller than original ratio what borrower expected
                borrowRequestFulfillment,
                collateralAmountRequired,
                fulfillAmount,
                borrowRequestProposalId
            );
        --- SKIP ---
    }
```
After that, when a user call [acceptBorrowRequest()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L395-L406), the deducted collateral amount is calculated in the following [_calculateCollateralAmountRequired()](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1161-L1171) function.
```solidity
    function _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
        Proposal calldata proposal,
        Fulfillment storage fulfillment,
        uint256 fulfillAmount
    ) private view returns (uint256 collateralAmountRequired) {
        if (fulfillment.loanAmount + fulfillAmount == proposal.loanAmount) {
@>          collateralAmountRequired = proposal.collateralAmount - fulfillment.collateralAmount;
        } else {
            collateralAmountRequired = (proposal.collateralAmount * fulfillAmount) / proposal.loanAmount;
        }
    }
```
As can be seen, in the fully matched case, the collateral amount is calculated by `proposal.collateralAmount - fulfillment.collateralAmount` instead of collateral ratio.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. Borrower's proposal is partially matched with the lender's proposal by matchProposals() function.
2. The partially matched proposal is fully accepted by acceptBorrowRequest() function.


### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. A borrower propose a `borrwoRequest` with `loanAmount = 1000` and `collateralAmount = 2000`. That is, the collateral ratio is `200%`.
2. A lender propose a `loanOffer` with `loanAmount = 800` and `collateralAmount = 1000`.
3. A matcher calls `matchProposals()` with `borrowRequest` and `loanOffer` parameters. Then `loanOffer` is fully matched while `borrowRequest` is partially matched. The not fulfilled amount of `loanAmount` is `1000 - 800 = 200` and the one of `collateralAmount` is `2000 - 1000 = 1000`.
4. Another lender calls `acceptBorrowRequest()` with `borrowRequest` parameter. The borrower lend only `200` USDB but should lock `1000` CT. That is, the collateral ratio for this loan is `500%`.

### Impact

Borrower will pay larger amount of collaterals for the last loan than it should be. This is not a loss of fund but a lock of fund. But as per contest README:
> Also the last loan created will end up making the borrower put up with slightly more collateral because of precision loss (it shouldn’t be more than a few weis). We accept this trade-off in order to maintain the collateral ratio.

, this is not the intended design. That is, the design intension is to allow up to few weis of precision loss for the collaterals in the case of full match.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Modify `matchProposals()` such that deduct the collaterals from `borrowRequest` according to the collateral ratio of `borrowRequest` instead of `loanOffer`.