Rare Emerald Sealion

Medium

# Last loan of a borrow offer may incur a significantly higher collateral ratio

### Summary

Due to the way `matchProposal()` resolves proposal matching, as well as how `_calculateCollateralAmountRequired()` works, the last loan of a borrow offer may have a significantly higher collateral ratio than the other loans, putting more capital at risk.

### Root Cause

A borrow request/loan offer can either be partially filled or fully filled. If partial filled, the collateral amount will be pro-rata. However if fully filled, the collateral amount will be the remaining amount of the proposal:

```solidity
function _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
    Proposal calldata proposal,
    Fulfillment storage fulfillment,
    uint256 fulfillAmount
) private view returns (uint256 collateralAmountRequired) {
    if (fulfillment.loanAmount + fulfillAmount == proposal.loanAmount) {
        collateralAmountRequired = proposal.collateralAmount - fulfillment.collateralAmount;
    } else {
        collateralAmountRequired = (proposal.collateralAmount * fulfillAmount) / proposal.loanAmount;
    }
}
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1161-L1171

A borrow request can be accepted using `acceptBorrowOffer()`.

A borrow request and a loan offer can also be matched against each other using `matchProposals()` if the loan offer's collateral/loan ratio is not higher than that of the borrower offer:

```solidity
if (
    borrowRequest.collateralAmount * loanOffer.loanAmount <
    borrowRequest.loanAmount * loanOffer.collateralAmount
) {
    revert UnacceptableCollateralizationRatio();
}
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L351-L356

And then the collateral amount for both proposals are fulfilled using the loan offer's parameters:

```solidity
collateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
    loanOffer,
    loanOfferFulfillment,
    fulfillAmount
);
```

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L395-L399

Because the loan offer's collateralization ratio is lower, the borrow offer is fulfilled with less collateral than its initial collateral/borrow ratio.

However, when the borrow offer is additionally filled with `acceptBorrowOffer()`, the borrow offer is fulfilled using its initial collateral/borrow ratio, **except for when fully filling** the remaining amount, in which case the full remaining collateral is used. This creates a huge discrepancy if a borrow request was partially filled using matching, but then filled using `acceptBorrowOffer()` - fully filling the remaining amount will require much higher collateral than partially filling it.

See attack path section for a numerical example.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. There is a borrow request B with collateral amount = 400 CTF, and borrow amount = 200 USDC. Collateral/borrow ratio = 2
2. There is a loan offer L with collateral amount = 150 CTF, and loan amount = 100 USDC. Collateral/borrow ratio = 1.5
3. These two requests B and L are matched with each other. It is possible as collateral/borrow ratio of B is higher than L.
    - The filled amount is 100 USDC, as it is the lower unfilled amount of the two order.
    - The collateral amount is calculated based on the loan offer, which is 150 CTF.
    - The borrow amount is partially filled with 150 CTF and 100 USDC.

The borrow request now has 250 CTF and 100 USDC left. However, the calculated collateral/borrow ratio is still 2. Therefore if the borrow request is now filled through `acceptBorrowRequest()`:
- If the borrow request is partially filled e.g. 99 USDC, then the collateral amount will be 2x that amount (198 CTF in the given example).
- If the borrow request is instead filled fully for 100 USDC, the collateral amount will be all 250 CTF, which is significantly higher than the ratio of 2x, and is 52 CTF higher for an extra loan of 1 USDC.

### Impact

Borrower is forced to stake a significantly higher amount of collateral, putting more capital at risk.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

For calculating required collateral amount borrow orders, use pro-rata calculation regardless of fully filling or partial filling.