Fancy Mocha Stork

Medium

# The `matchProposals` function should create the new loan with `borrowRequest` instead of `loanOffer`

### Summary

predict.loan is a peer to peer lending protocol for conditional tokens traded on predict.fun and the lenders are the USDB liquidity providers.
Therefore, lenders should receive more incentives than borrowers. However, the `matchProposals` function offers more incentives to borrowers than to lenders.

### Root Cause

In the [`matchProposals](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L424) function, it creates the new loan with `loanOffer.interestRatePerSecond` and `loanOffer.duration`.

```solidity
File: predict-dot-loan\contracts\PredictDotLoan.sol
424:         _createLoan(
425:             _nextLoanId,
426:             loanOffer,
427:             positionId,
428:             loanOffer.from,
429:             borrowRequest.from,
430:             collateralAmountRequired,
431:             fulfillAmount
432:         );
[...]
1025:         loans[id].interestRatePerSecond = proposal.interestRatePerSecond;
1027:         loans[id].minimumDuration = proposal.duration;
```

The `loanOffer.interestRatePerSecond` and `loanOffer.duration` are better than those of the borrow request. As a result, the new loan is beneficial for borrowers rather than for lenders.

### Internal pre-conditions

None

### External pre-conditions

1. None

### Attack Path

1. Alice creates the loan offer with `interestRatePerSecond = 1e18` and `duration = 10 days`.
Bob creates the borrow request with `interestRatePerSecond = 1e18 + 1000` and `duration = 5 days`.
The loan offer and borrow request satisfy the other proposal matching conditions each other.
2. A user calls the `matchProposals` function for this offer and request.
It creates the new loan with the following parameters:
    - interestRatePerSecond: 1e18
    - minimumDuration: 10 days

Even though Bob creates the borrow request with `interestRatePerSecond = 1e18 + 1000` and `duration = 5 days`, he borrows with `interestRatePerSecond = 1e18` and `duration = 10 days`.
The borrower, Bob, benefited rather than the lender, Alice.

### Impact

The borrowers gets more incentives than lenders.

### PoC

None

### Mitigation

It is recommended to change the code in the `matchProposals` function as following:

```diff
        _createLoan(
            _nextLoanId,
-           loanOffer,
+           borrowRequest,
            positionId,
            loanOffer.from,
            borrowRequest.from,
            collateralAmountRequired,
            fulfillAmount
        );
```