Fancy Mocha Stork

Medium

# The `matchProposals` function increases the collateral ratio of the borrowing request

### Summary

The proposal creators determine the collateral ratio by setting the `loanAmount` and `collateralAmount` variables. In other words, the acceptance of a proposal is limited to cases where the accepted `loanAmount` and `collateralAmount` satisfy the collateral ratio. However, the proposal matching process can violate the collateral ratio for the borrowing request.

### Root Cause

In [`matchProposals`](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L403), it updates the `borrowRequestFulfillment` with `collateralAmountRequired`, which is calculated based on the `loanOffer`.

```solidity
File: predict-dot-loan\contracts\PredictDotLoan.sol
395:@>           collateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
396:                 loanOffer,
397:                 loanOfferFulfillment,
398:                 fulfillAmount
399:             );
400: 
401:@>           _updateFulfillment(
402:                 borrowRequestFulfillment,
403:                 collateralAmountRequired,
404:                 fulfillAmount,
405:                 borrowRequestProposalId
406:             );
```

The collateral ratio of the loan offer is lower than that of the borrow request. As a result, the ratio between the available fulfillment amount and the collateral amount in the `borrowRequestFulfillment` increases beyond the collateral ratio of the borrow request proposal. Consequently, users can accept this borrow request with a higher collateral ratio.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. Alice creates the borrow request with `loanAmount = 100, collateralAmount = 150`.
2. Bob creates the loan offer with `loanAmount = 50, collateralAmount = 50`.
3. The loan offer and borrow request satisfies the proposal matching conditions each other.
4. There is no acceptance for this offer and request.

### External pre-conditions

1. None

### Attack Path

1. Chari calls `matchProposals` for Alice's request and Bob's offer.

```solidity
    borrowRequestFulfillment.collateralAmount = 50
    borrowRequestFulfillment.loanAmount = 50
```

2. Chari accepts Alice's request with `loanAmount = 50` and `collateralAmount = 100`. Alice created the request with a collateral ratio of 1.5, but Chari accepted her request with a collateral ratio of 2.

### Impact

Users can accept borrow requests with a higher collateral ratio than the ratio intended by the request creator.

### PoC

None

### Mitigation

It is recommend to change the code in the `matchProposals` function as following:

```diff
+       borrowCollateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
+           borrowRequest,
+           borrowRequestFulfillment,
+           fulfillAmount
+       );

        _updateFulfillment(
            borrowRequestFulfillment,
-           collateralAmountRequired,
+           borrowCollateralAmountRequired,
            fulfillAmount,
            borrowRequestProposalId
        );
```
