Scruffy Clear Dog

Medium

# Improper update of fulfillment of `borrowRequest` in the `matchProposals()` function will lead to unfair loans

### Summary

In the `matchProposals()` function, fulfillments of both `borrowRequest` and `loanOffer` are updated. If the LTV(loan to value) of `borrowRequest` is strictly larger than that of `loanOffer`, then the LTV of remaining fulfillment could be much larger than the original one. As result, the last lender of the `borrowRequest` can take more collateral than expected.

### Root Cause

The loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of a proposal is the ratio of the loanAmount to the collateralAmount.
When matching the two proposals, there could be a discrepency between the LTVs of the proposals. However, the same amount of collateral is added to the both of fulfillments at L403 and L407, which could result in a high LTV in the remaining fulfillment amounts in the `borrowRequest` proposal.
Even a loan with 0 loanAmount can be created.
This is unfair to the proposer of the `borrowRequest`, because he can borrow more loan with the remaining collaterls.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L320-L449
```solidity
    function matchProposals(
        Proposal calldata borrowRequest,
        Proposal calldata loanOffer
    ) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused {
              [...]
            collateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
                loanOffer,
                loanOfferFulfillment,
                fulfillAmount
            );

            _updateFulfillment(
                borrowRequestFulfillment,
403:            collateralAmountRequired,
                fulfillAmount,
                borrowRequestProposalId
            );
407:        _updateFulfillment(loanOfferFulfillment, collateralAmountRequired, fulfillAmount, loanOfferProposalId);
              [...]
    }
```

### Internal pre-conditions

There are a borrowing proposal and a lending proposal as following. 
- `borrowRequest`
  loanAmount: 101
  collateralAmount: 120
- `loanOffer`
  loanAmount: 100
  collateralAmount: 110

### External pre-conditions

None

### Attack Path

1. Alice matches the two above proposals. Then, 
  - loanOfferFulfillment is {collateralAmount: 110, loanAmount:100}.
  - borrowRequestFulfilment is {collateralAmount: 110, loanAmount:100}.
2. Alice accepts the `borrowRequest`.
  - collateralAmount of the new loan: 120 - 110 = 10
  - loanAmount of the new loan: 101 - 100 = 1.
  - The LTV of the new loan is 10/1 = 10.

### Impact

A loan with a very high loan-to-value (LTV) ratio can be issued, which is unfair to the borrower.

### PoC

### Mitigation

The fulfillment of `borrowRequest` in the `matchProposals()` function should be updated according to the LTV of the `borrowRequest`, not `loanOffer`.