Rare Sky Mouse

High

# Excess collateral will be taken from borrowRequest even when it's not needed

### Summary

The collateral amount required to fulfill a `borrowRequest` is determined by `_calculateCollateralAmountRequired`. It's implementation is as follows:

```js
 //// returns the amount of collateral required during proposal fulfillment
    function _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
        Proposal calldata proposal,
        Fulfillment storage fulfillment,
        uint256 amountToFulfill
    ) private view returns (uint256 collateralAmountRequired) {
        if (fulfillment.loanAmount + amountToFulfill == proposal.loanAmount) {
            //// if fulfilling amountToFulfill completes the full loanAmount of proposal, then collateral required is proposal.collateralAmount - collateral fulfilled 
            collateralAmountRequired = proposal.collateralAmount - fulfillment.collateralAmount;
        } else {
            //// collateral required is calculated on pro-rated basis 
            collateralAmountRequired = (proposal.collateralAmount * amountToFulfill) / proposal.loanAmount;
        }
    }
```

When `amountToFulfill` is equal to `proposal.loanAmount`, it takes all the remaining `collateralAmount` that is mentioned in the `borrowRequest`. Else, it takes `pro-rated` amount of `collateralAmount` based on `proposal.collateralAmount` and `proposal.loanAmount`. However, there will be issue in using such mechanism when `borrowRequest` proposal is matched partially using `matchProposals` function.

In `matchProposals` function, there is following check. It ensures that `collateralization ratio of borrowRequest` is less than `collateralization ratio of loanOffer` that is being matched. Also, the `collateralAmountRequired` in `matchProposals` is based on `loanOffer`. Hence, collateralization ratio used will be less than what was expected by borrower. 
```js
if (
            borrowRequest.collateralAmount * loanOffer.loanAmount < borrowRequest.loanAmount * loanOffer.collateralAmount
        ) {
            revert UnacceptableCollateralizationRatio();
        }

collateralAmountRequired = _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
                loanOffer,
                loanOfferFulfillment,
                fulfillAmount
            );
``` 
Due to this, `collateral` amount charged from `borrowRequest` may be less than what borrower has mentioned in `borrowRequest` proposal. The last person who will be fulfilling `borrowRequest` struct will be charged excess collateral that will be more than `collateralization ratio` of `borrowRequest` proposal. 

### Root Cause

Wrong implementation used for calculating required collateral in `_calculateCollateralAmountRequired` function.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1166-L1168

> 

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. The borrower creates the `borrowRequest` proposal to `borrow` `1000 USDB` and collateral amount of `1200 CTF` tokens. So, `loanAmount` is `1000` and `collateralAmount` is `1500`. In this `borrowRequest`, collateralization ratio is `150%`.
2. The lender creates the `loanOffer` to `lend` `500 USDB` and collateral amount of `600 CTF` tokens. So, `loanAmount` is `500` and `collateralAmount` is `600`.
3. Someone matches the `borrowRequest` proposal and `loanOffer` proposal created above. 
4. `borrowRequestFulfillment` struct will be created with `loanAmount` of `500` and `collateralAmount` of `600`.
5. Some other lender tries to lend to `borrowRequest` filled partially by calling `acceptBorrowRequest` with `fulfillAmount` of `500`.
6. Since lender is fulfilling `500` amount, collateral that the borrower should be charged based on collateralization ratio is `500 * 150 / 100` i.e. `750 CTF` tokens.
7. But the real `collateralAmount` charged will be `1500 - 600 = 900 CTF tokens` 

### Impact

The `borrower` will be charged excess collateral compared to the collateralization ratio for the amount he is getting from lender if `borrowRequest` is matched by calling `matchProposal`. That excess collateral shouldn't be charged.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Refactor the implementation of `_calculateCollateralAmountRequired` where `collateral` amount is calculated based on `pro-rated` basis. I assume the current implementation is used to mitigate rounding error but it is introducing one other issue which is more severe.