Faint Amethyst Ant

Medium

# Preventing invalid identifiers by validating against zero values

### Summary

In `NegRiskIdLib.sol` the input of the `getMarketId` function should not be zero (`bytes32(0)`), as in many cases, such as hashes or unique identifiers, a zero value is considered invalid or incorrect. Valid unique identifiers or hashes never have a zero value, and accepting such a value could lead to unexpected behavior in the system. Therefore, checking for a zero value helps prevent unintended errors and ensures data integrity. Additionally, we will add a condition to the function to check for this matter.

### Root Cause

In [NegRiskIdLib:L15](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/libraries/NegRiskIdLib.sol#L15) the input value of the `getMarketId` function must not be zero, and we will add a conditional statement to the code to address this issue.
```solidity
    function getMarketId(bytes32 _questionId) internal pure returns (bytes32) {
        return _questionId & MASK;
    }
```

### Impact

A zero value (bytes32(0)) should not be allowed in this function `(getMarketId)` input, as in many cases, such as hashes or unique identifiers, a zero value is considered invalid or incorrect.


### Mitigation

Prevent `bytes(0)` from being passed as an invalid value to the `(getMarketId)` function. This can be checked using an `if` conditional statement.

Suggested code:
```solidity
function getMarketId(bytes32 _questionId) internal pure returns (bytes32) {
        if (_questionId == bytes32(0)) {
            revert InvalidQuestionId(); // Use the custom error
        }
        return _questionId & MASK;
    }
```
In this code, an initial validation is performed to ensure that `questionId` cannot be zero. While zero values (0x000...000) are technically valid for the `bytes32` type, bur in some cases a zero value may signal an incorrect or problematic input.