Rare Emerald Sealion

Medium

# A single failure in batch refinancing will revert all refinances

### Summary

The refinancier role is capable of refinancing loans, if the user opts in. However, a single failure in batch refinancing will revert all refinances in a given batch.

### Root Cause

The refinancier role is capable of refinancing loans, if the user opts in. However, a single failure in batch refinancing will revert all refinances in a given batch.

There are various ways for refinancing to fail, for example when a refinancing tx was front-ran (accidentally or intentionally) by a repayment, by a loan call, or by user simply opting out of refinancing when the bot's tx was submitted.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L504

```solidity
function refinance(
    Refinancing[] calldata refinancings
) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused onlyRole(REFINANCIER_ROLE) {
    RefinancingResult[] memory results = new RefinancingResult[](refinancings.length);
    for (uint256 i; i < refinancings.length; ++i) {
        Refinancing calldata refinancing = refinancings[i];
        (uint256 id, Loan memory loan, uint256 protocolFee) = _refinance(refinancing);
        // ...
    }
}
```

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

A loan has to be affected before the refinancing tx goes through to the blockchain (for example, by repayment, by the loan being called, by manual refinancing, or by the user opting out of refinancing.

### Attack Path

1. The refinancier role submits a batch of Refinancings.
2. One of the loans in the refinancings gets repaid or called, or the user opts out of auto-refinancing.
3. The rest of the refinancings also reverts due to one refinance failing.

### Impact

All refinances in a batch will revert if only one refinancing reverts. 

A late refinancing will incur interest on the loan. Thus affected loans will be harder to close by repay/auction.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Refinancing for the rest of the batch should not fail when one refinancing fails.