Overt Gunmetal Lizard

Medium

# Users have the ability to grief automated refinancing

### Summary

Refinancing can be done in an automated manner ensured by bots holding with the `REFINANCIER_ROLE` role.

To do so, the `refinance(Refinancing[] calldata refinancings)` function is called with an array of `Refinancing` structs.

This array contains refinancing parameters for users that have `autoRefinancingEnabled`. This can be set using `toggleAutoRefinancingEnabled()`.

First, the function will perform the refinance using the internal `_refinance()`, which performs various checks and at some point transfers loan tokens (ERC20) from the new lender to the old lender using `_transferLoanAmountAndProtocolFeeWithoutDeductingFromLoanAmount()` internal function.

<https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1117>

<https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L906-L916>

```solidity
function _transferLoanAmountAndProtocolFeeWithoutDeductingFromLoanAmount(
    address from,
    address to,
    uint256 loanAmount,
    uint256 protocolFee
) private {
    LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(from, to, loanAmount);
    if (protocolFee > 0) {
        LOAN_TOKEN.safeTransferFrom(from, protocolFeeRecipient, protocolFee);
    }
}
```

Then, the function ensures the borrowers actually have `autoRefinancingEnabled` and revert in case it is not.

<https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L512-L514>

```solidity
function refinance(
    Refinancing[] calldata refinancings
) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused onlyRole(REFINANCIER_ROLE) {
    // snip ----------------
    if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) {
        revert BorrowerDidNotEnableAutoRefinancing(borrower);
    }
    // snip ----------------
```


### Root Cause

The issue occurs because the automated `refinance()` function can revert in various ways, voluntarily or not.

For example, an actor can choose to toggle the refinancing OFF (maliciously or not) in the same block as the one the bot's transaction will be included which will revert all the refinancing batch.

The batch can also fail if a lender chosen for one of the new proposal did not approve the contract to use its loan tokens.

Refinancing is important for traders as it allows them to reduce their interest rate and perform better on the market. It is also used to reduce their debt in the long-term.

This can be damaging for traders that are included in the batch as their refinancing will fail with the others.

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

_No response_

### Impact

Legitimate refinancing that should be successful will fail with the entire batch, extending the duration of their current loan and increasing their debt.





### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

In case one refinancing fails, the transaction should proceed and process all the refinancing left in the batch.