Fancy Mocha Stork

Medium

# In the `refinance` function for `REFINANCIER_ROLE`, one loan should not affect the refinancing of others.

### Summary

The `REFINANCIER_ROLE` bot automatically refinances several loans. If one of the loans does not meet the refinancing conditions or is disabled for auto refinancing, the bot's call to the `refinance` function is reverted.
The bot should remake the refinancing list.
Additionally, the refinancing delay increases the debt of other loans, which may prevent some loans from being refinanced.
The unsatisfactory conditions of one loan should not affect the auto refinancing of the other loans.

### Root Cause

In the [refinance](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L506-L514) function, It contains a vulnerability that could cause the entire loop to revert.

```solidity
File: predict-dot-loan\contracts\PredictDotLoan.sol
504:         for (uint256 i; i < refinancings.length; ++i) {
505:             Refinancing calldata refinancing = refinancings[i];
506:             (uint256 id, Loan memory loan, uint256 protocolFee) = _refinance(refinancing);
511:             address borrower = loan.borrower;
512:             if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) {
513:                 revert BorrowerDidNotEnableAutoRefinancing(borrower);
514:             }
```

### Internal pre-conditions

None

### External pre-conditions

1. None

### Attack Path

1. The `REFINANCIER_ROLE` creates a list of loans for refinancing and attempts to call the `refinance` function with that list. The list includes Alice's borrowing loan.
2. Alice disabled auto refinancing before the `REFINANCIER_ROLE` called the `refinance` function.
3. The `REFINANCIER_ROLE` calls the `refinance` function, but it is reverted.

### Impact

- Auto refinancing by `REFINANCIER_ROLE` can be DoSed temporarily.
- Some loans may not be refinanced.

### PoC

None

### Mitigation

It is recommended to change the code in the `refinance` function as following:

```diff
+       if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) {
+           continue;
+       }
        (uint256 id, Loan memory loan, uint256 protocolFee) = _refinance(refinancing);

        address borrower = loan.borrower;
-       if (autoRefinancingEnabled[borrower] == 0) {
-           revert BorrowerDidNotEnableAutoRefinancing(borrower);
-       }
```

Additionally, modify the code so that the entire loop does not revert if the call to `_refinance` is reverted due to the checking of the refinance conditions.
