Fluffy Denim Narwhal

Medium

# incrementNonces() Must Be Secured to Prevent Exploitation

### Summary

The unrestricted access to the `incrementNonces()` function will cause unjust manipulation for **lenders and borrowers**, as malicious users will **arbitrarily increase their nonce values** to exploit the batch cancellation system and undermine the fairness of reward distribution.

### Root Cause

In `PredictDotLoan.sol:667` 
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L667
The function lacks protection to arbitrary calls.

### Internal pre-conditions

- Lender or borrower needs to call incrementNonces() to set the lending or borrowing nonce to be greater than the 
  previous value.
- No validation needs to exist in the incrementNonces() function to prevent arbitrary increases in the nonce value.
- Nonces mapping for a specific user needs to be initialized so that the user can continue incrementing it indefinitely.

### External pre-conditions

- No external restriction from other contracts or off-chain systems preventing the user from calling incrementNonces() 
   multiple times within a short period.
- Gas price needs to be affordable to enable a large number of arbitrary calls to incrementNonces() without economic 
   constraints 
- No external oracle or tracking system that verifies if the nonce incrementation corresponds to legitimate 
   lending/borrowing actions.

### Attack Path

Attacker(borrower/lender contract) calls `incrementNounce()` arbitrary times (eg 10000 times)

### Impact

The `incrementNonces()` function allows users to increase their lending or borrowing nonces without legitimate actions, potentially enabling manipulation of the batch cancellation system. This could lead to unfair advantages and undermine system integrity.

### PoC

```solidity
function test_ArbitraryCalls() public {
        for (uint256 i = 0; i < 10000; i++) {
            predictDotLoan.incrementNonces(false, true);
        }
    }
    ```

### Mitigation

_No response_