Cool Ash Ostrich

High

# Borrowers can't refinance their loans due improper check

### Summary

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L1052-L1134
The refinancing function contains a vulnerability that prevents borrowers from refinancing their loans. This occurs because the calculated fulfillment amount, which includes the debt and protocol fee, is always higher than the previous loan amount due to factored interest rates. This results in a denial of service for users attempting to refinance their loans.

### Root Cause

The root cause of the vulnerability is in the  if-else statement structured to check  collateralAmountRequired against loan.collateralAmount in the _refinance function. This check doesn't factor in the fact that collateralAmountRequired for new loan will always be higher than the collateral amount of the old loan due to interest rates factored in the calculation of the new loan amount(fulfill amount), which directly affects the calculation of the new collateral amount required.

### Internal pre-conditions

-A loan must exist with an initial loan amount and interest rate.
-The user must attempt to refinance the loan after some time has passed, accruing interest.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

-A user attempts to refinance their loan by calling the _refinance function.
-The function calculates the debt based on the loan amount, interest rate, and elapsed time.
-The protocolFee is added to the debt to determine the fulfillAmount.
-The  collateralAmountRequired  is checked against loan.collateralAmount  in the if/else statement
-The transaction reverts, preventing the user from refinancing their loan, because collateralAmountRequired  will always be higher than loan.collateralAmount

### Impact

Users are unable to refinance their loans when a new proposal is available, eventually leading to loss of funds as their collateral can be seized after loan duration elapsed

### PoC

The _refinance function calculates the the new loan amount(fullfill amount) based on the interest rate ensuring that the new loan amount has accrued the neccessary interests.
Below it calculates the  new loan amount(fulfill amount)
```solidity
 uint256 debt = _calculateDebt(loan.loanAmount, loan.interestRatePerSecond, block.timestamp - loan.startTime);
        protocolFee = (debt * protocolFeeBasisPoints) / 10_000;
        uint256 fulfillAmount = debt + protocolFee;
        _assertFulfillAmountNotTooLow(fulfillAmount, fulfillment.loanAmount, proposal.loanAmount);
```

after calculating the new loan amount, it does a series of check to ensure that fulfilll amount  and the collateral amount is within expected parameters, but it fails to factor in the increased loan due to interest rates.

-it calls _assertFulfillAmountNotTooHigh() which ensures the fulfill amount is not higher than proposal loan amount from the lender

-Then it calculates the collateral amount required through _calculateCollateralAmountRequired().  _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(), however makes it calculation based on fulfill amount which logically won't be less than 1:1 because of the _assertCollateralizationRatioAtLeastOneHundredPercent() check;
```solidity
 function _calculateCollateralAmountRequired(
        Proposal calldata proposal,
        Fulfillment storage fulfillment,
        uint256 fulfillAmount
    ) private view returns (uint256 collateralAmountRequired) {
        if (fulfillment.loanAmount + fulfillAmount == proposal.loanAmount) {
            collateralAmountRequired = proposal.collateralAmount - fulfillment.collateralAmount;
        } else {
            collateralAmountRequired = (proposal.collateralAmount * fulfillAmount) / proposal.loanAmount;
        }
    }

```
```solidity
 /**
     * @dev Collateralization ratio must be at least 100%.
     *      Revert if the collateral amount is less than the loan amount.
     *
     * @param collateralAmount The proposal's collateral amount
     * @param loanAmount The proposal's loan amount
     */
    function _assertCollateralizationRatioAtLeastOneHundredPercent(
        uint256 collateralAmount,
        uint256 loanAmount
    ) private pure {
        if (collateralAmount < loanAmount) {//for this to make sense, function must only deal with stable coins but protocol is not structured for FOT
            revert CollateralizationRatioTooLow();
        }
    }
```
The function eventually fails because it checks if the collateralAmountRequired amount needed to service new loan is not higher than the old loan's collateral amount, which isn't feasible because of the interest rates which has been factored into the calculation of the new collateral amount
```solidity
 if (collateralAmountRequired > loan.collateralAmount) {
            revert InsufficientCollateral();
        }
``` 




### Mitigation

Remove or modify the if/else check to factor in the expected increase in the collateralAmountRequired amount.