Creamy Lace Seahorse

Medium

# Lender can auction and seize during paused state

### Summary

Whenever a loan is past its `minimumDuration`, the lender is free to call `auction`. Then, if the position's answer is not available, the loan has to undergo an auction, where any other potential lender can take it and become the new lender (paying the borrowed amount to the previous lender).

```solidity
    function call(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
        Loan storage loan = loans[loanId];

        _assertAuthorizedCaller(loan.lender);
        _assertLoanStatus(loan.status, LoanStatus.Active);

        if (loan.startTime + loan.minimumDuration > block.timestamp) {
            revert LoanNotMatured();
        }

        if (_isQuestionPriceAvailable(loan.questionType, positionQuestion[loan.positionId])) {
            _seize(loanId, loan);
        } else {
            loan.status = LoanStatus.Called;
            loan.callTime = block.timestamp;

            emit LoanCalled(loanId);
        }
    }
```

This basically makes sure that if another lender sees value in the borrow, they can take it, instead of simply allowing the original lender to steal the collateral.

However, in case the state's paused, lenders cannot call `auction`.
```solidity
    function auction(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused {
```

Lenders are free to abuse this to make sure they get the borrower's collateral.




### Root Cause

`auction` has a `whenNotPaused` modifier


### Attack Path

Consider the following scenario:

1. A borrow is past its `minimumDuration`. The lender sees more value in the collateral than in the borrowed amount, therefore they prefer getting the collateral
2. Usually that would not be possible as if they put it on auction, another lender would take it and they'd just get the borrowed amount.
3. Contract state gets paused.
4. Lender makes use of it and starts auction.
5. Because the state is paused, no other lender can take the borrow
6. After auction's duration passes, the lender is free to seize the collateral.


### Affected Code
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L561C1-L561C75

### Impact

Lender can bypass intended restrictions and guarantee getting the loan's collateral. Loss of funds.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Consider allowing calls to `auction` during paused state or adding a separate pause function specifically to the `auction` function