Alert Neon Hornet

High

# The lender can push borrower to forfeit its Collateral until it's not profitable for lender anymore

### Summary

When the loan duration is passed the lender has the right to `call()` the loan and force auction. During this state the borrower can still `repay()` the loan. When someone taken the loan from `auction()` it adds protocol Fee to it. If a borrower is going to `repay()` but it's more profitable for lender to keep the Collateral it can frontrun `repay()` and execute its `auction()` then it can `call()` again. Now, some protocol Fee will be added to the debt. If it's still profitable to keep the Collateral then the lender can again frontrun borrower's `repay()` call until it's not profitable for either of them or borrower forfeit this auction war and lender `seize()` the collateral.

### Root Cause

There is no cooldown period between `call()` and `auction()` leading to a scenario where the borrower will lose its Collateral if its loan duration is passed.
`https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L534C1-L552C6`

### Internal pre-conditions

1. The loan should pass the loan.duration.
2. The Collateral value should be more than loan debt.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. The borrower takes a loan.
2. The borrower waits for the loan period to end.
3. The loan period ends. Now borrower tries to `repay()` but it gets frontrun by `auction()` because the Collateral is more valuable than the debt.
4. The borrower call reverts as the existing loan status changes to **Auctioned**.
5.  The new lender now do `call()` and get ready if the borrower tries to `repay()` again. 
6.  If the borrower tries it can again do `auction()` with another account. Which leads to borrower call to revert again.
7. The lender can replay these steps until either the borrower stops trying to `repay()` or if the Collateral value reaches the debt value. As the debt keeps on increasing on every auction call.

### Impact

The borrower will suffer from Collateral loss and the lender will either get more value or get it's debt equivalent of collateral back. Considering the loan was already backed with Collateral >100% of debt value.

### PoC

Add the following test in `PredictDotLoan.auction.t.sol`
```solidity
function testFuzz_auctionCurrentInterestRatePerSecond2(uint256 timeElapsed) public {
    vm.assume(timeElapsed > 0 && timeElapsed <= AUCTION_DURATION);

    test_call();

    vm.warp(vm.getBlockTimestamp() + timeElapsed);

    uint256 currentInterestRatePerSecond = predictDotLoan.calculateDebt(1);

    vm.prank(lender2);
    predictDotLoan.auction(1);

    vm.expectRevert(IPredictDotLoan.InvalidLoanStatus.selector);
    vm.prank(borrower);
    predictDotLoan.repay(1);

    uint256 newDebt = predictDotLoan.calculateDebt(2);

    assertGe(newDebt, currentInterestRatePerSecond);
}
```

### Mitigation

There should be some Cooldown period between `call()` and `auction()` so the borrower can get chance to `repay()` its loan.
```solidity
if (block.timestamp <= loan.callTime + COOLDOWN_PERIOD) {
    revert CoolDownPeriodNotEnded;
}
```