Savory White Panda

Medium

# During Auction once a lender calls `Auction()` on the `loanId` new lenders cannot continue to `Bid`

### Summary

Once the `minimumDuration` of a loan is over the lender has the right to `call` the loan. This opens up for `Auctioning` where lenders can bid and become new lenders . the incentive is that the interest will go up per every hour to a maximum of `24hours`. 
now the error arises when a new lender calls `Auction()` the status is checked it is `called` then the new lender pays the debt becoming the owner. but the status is changed to `Active`. remember there is a check `  _assertLoanStatus(loan.status, LoanStatus.Called);`. that checks if the loan.status is called. the new lender can avoid calling the `loan` to avoid new lenders in bidding on the loanId.

### Root Cause

In `PredictLoan` in the function `Auction()` there is the check if the lender of the `loanId` has called the loan which will allow for bidding
`_assertLoanStatus(loan.status, LoanStatus.Called);`.
Then if it is called it checks the difference between calling and the present time is below 24 hours.
It then marks the old new Id as Auctioned
`  loan.status = LoanStatus.Auctioned;`
and creates a new Id where status is ACTIVE.
- This leds the new lender to be control of the auction. by avoiding to call `call()` on the new Id to avoid bidders to place bid.
- When a new Bidder calls `Auction()` on the new  loanId the transaction will revert since the status will be `Active`
- Or another scenario if the lender is hoping on another lender to come up and take up the loan leaving him with profit of hours passed between when he took the loan to the new lender bidding on the new loan. This will be disrupted.





### Internal pre-conditions

1. When the lenders calls `call()` on the `loanId` let status remain `called`. so as new lenders can bid on the loanId without reverting.


### External pre-conditions

1. When the lenders calls `call()` on the `loanId` let status remain `called`. so as new lenders can bid on the loanId without reverting.


### Attack Path

Before Attack The following has taken place, the minimum duration of the loan has ended and now lender has called `call()`
1. Alice  calls `Auction()` on the loanId.
2.  This check passes since its called by previous lender `_assertLoanStatus(loan.status, LoanStatus.Called);`
3. The Alice owns the `loanId` and now she is the owner and during creation of the new loanId the status is change to `  newLoan.status = LoanStatus.Active;`
4. Bob sees the id and the `callTime - block.timestamp` is below 24 hours so interest is high so he wants to bid on the new loanId.
5. Bob calls `Auction` on the loanId but it reverts during this check `_assertLoanStatus(loan.status, LoanStatus.Called);`. 

    

### Impact

The Auction will not work since it incentive of high interest paid to the last Bidder will not work. This will lead to no one wanting to participate in the auction since old lenders will not receive from new lenders when they bid.

### PoC

Place this in `PredictDotLoan.auction.t.sol`
```javascript
  function testNewLendersCannotCallBid() public {
        //Time passed since the lender called the loan
        uint256 timeElapsed = 1 hours;
        //Time passed since the first lender called auction on the loan
        uint256 timeElapsedSinceLastBidder = 10 hours;
        //mint tokens to the lender2 which is the first bidder in the auction
        mockERC20.mint(lender2, LOAN_AMOUNT * 1000e18);
        mockERC20.approve(address(predictDotLoan), LOAN_AMOUNT * 1000e18);
        //create lender3
        address lender3 = address(uint160(145));
        //mint tokens to lender3
        mockERC20.mint(lender3, LOAN_AMOUNT * 1000e18);
        mockERC20.approve(address(predictDotLoan), LOAN_AMOUNT * 1000e18);

        vm.prank(lender2);
        mockERC20.approve(address(predictDotLoan), LOAN_AMOUNT * 1000e18);

        vm.prank(lender3);
        mockERC20.approve(address(predictDotLoan), LOAN_AMOUNT * 1000e18);
        //original lender calls the loan which now lenders can bid on.
        test_call();
        vm.warp(vm.getBlockTimestamp() + timeElapsed);
        //The first lender calls auction which will make him owner of the loan
        vm.startPrank(lender2);
        predictDotLoan.auction(1);
        // time passes
        vm.warp(vm.getBlockTimestamp() + timeElapsedSinceLastBidder);
        // yet below 24 hours this transaction will revert since last bidder has now the power of deciding to call loan
        vm.startPrank(lender3);
        vm.expectRevert(IPredictDotLoan.InvalidLoanStatus.selector);
        predictDotLoan.auction(2);
    }
```
### Mitigation

refactor the code as long as it is below 24 hours which is the loan duration. the status remain `called` for the new loan generated.
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L587C1-L597C1
```diff
-           newLoan.status = LoanStatus.Active;
+          newLoan.status = LoanStatus.Called;
```