Low Carob Crocodile

Medium

# After `call` and `repay`, the lender loses part of the fee

### Summary

After a loan is called, it can either be auctioned off or repaid by the borrower. A subsequent repayment results in the lender losing a portion of the fee because the loan duration is calculated only up to the time of the call, not until the actual repayment.

### Root Cause

The repayment time is incorrectly stopped. The time should only be stopped if the loan is auctioned off to avoid increasing the acquisition cost for the new lender.

[PredictDotLoan.sol:466](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/ba2bd6f941f9cd953634a80bb4045550e521e2ef/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L466-L466)

```solidity
File: predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol
 1200:     function _calculateLoanTimeElapsed(Loan storage loan) private view returns (uint256 timeElapsed) {
 1201:         uint256 endTime = loan.callTime == 0 ? block.timestamp : loan.callTime;
 1202:         unchecked {
 1203:             timeElapsed = endTime - loan.startTime;
 1204:         }
 1205:     }
```

### Internal pre-conditions

1. The borrower does not repay the loan on time.
2. The lender calls the loan, putting it up for auction.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. The borrower monitors the public mempool to detect buy transactions at the auction.
2. They front-run the auction bid by repaying the loan, profiting from the interest between the call and the actual repayment.
3. The auction fails to proceed.

### Impact

1. The borrower unfairly gains from the interest accrued during the period between the call and the repayment.
2. The lender loses part of their earnings as interest is not accrued past the auction call time.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

If the loan is repaid after the call, interest should continue to accrue for the time after the call as well.