Striped Bronze Ferret

High

# Lender cannot use auction functionality if lender called loan when contract is paused

### Summary

- When the admin pause the contract auction functionality cannot be used because it has `whenNotPaused` modifier. Intention of protocol is that when contract is paused no new loan should be created. It is working as intended in auction function.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L561

- But the function `call` does not have `whenNotPaused` which will lead to non-use of auction functionality of lender if lender call the loan when contract is paused.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-09-predict-fun/blob/main/predict-dot-loan/contracts/PredictDotLoan.sol#L534

- Suppose contract is paused and duration of lender is completed so lender call the loan and intends that loan will be gone into auction and new lender take over his loan. But the contract is paused so new lender cannot take over loan by calling action therefore lender cannot utilize the auction functionality of the protocol.

- Also, when admin pause the contract, the ongoing auctions cannot be used which will be adverse for the lender.
- If call function has  `whenNotPaused` the lender cannot call his loan during that time and it will no other adverse impact for the protocol. Already protocol dont want to create new loan when contract is paused so there is no logic of letting lender to call his loan because auction cannot be called. 

### Root Cause

The call function does not have `whenNotPaused` modifier.

### Internal pre-conditions

1. Admin pause the contract.

### External pre-conditions

_No response_

### Attack Path

1. Admin pause the contract.
2. A lender whose loan duration is over, call his loan.
3. Auction duration is started but new lender cannot use auction because contract is paused.
4. Lender cannot use the functionality of auction of his loan.

### Impact

Lender cannot use the functionality of auction on his loan.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Protocol should add `whenNotPaused` modifier in `call` function. It has no adverse impact and protect lender in such cases.

```diff
-function call(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant {
+function call(uint256 loanId) external nonReentrant whenNotPaused {
```